In this section you will learn to
interpret a work plan, make a 360 degree
scan, incorporate government priorities
into a work plan and adjust a work plan
according to new information this
section should take you approximately 20
minutes to complete a work plan is a
living document in which you define and
prioritize your units activities think
of it as a to-do list for the upcoming
year it helps you to communicate how
you'll be assigning resources and
managing timelines it's the cornerstone
of your planning process because it
supports your budget and reporting
activities typically you wouldn't start
from scratch you would simply review
last year's work plan budget and reports
to identify what needs to be kept added
or removed for the new year but even
before putting together your work plan
it's useful to step out of your role and
look at the big picture it all starts
with the speech from the throne which
outlines government priorities these
priorities will cascade down to you as a
manager and will need to be reflected in
your work plan after the speech from the
throne the Prime Minister addresses a
mandate letter to each departments
minister in it the Prime Minister sets
out their overall expectations and
policy objectives every year there is a
federal budget which sets Canada's
economic agenda for the year
departments will have priorities and objectives that
align to this agenda in addition to
other core mandates the organization's
core responsibilities results results
indicators and programme inventory are
outlined in a departmental results
framework or DRF then there is the
departmental plan which outlines
amongst
other things an organisation's
expenditure plan for the coming year
it includes in more detail the elements
of the DRF expected results and
associated resourcing requirements
covering a three year period then you
may have plans per sector branch and
Directorate this is where your work plan
comes in you build your work plan around
the activities that are the
responsibilities of your unit and this
naturally ties back to the departmental
plan and DRF at this point you might be
wondering what a work plan looks like
not all units use the same model by
talking to your colleagues and to folks
in corporate planning and Finance you
can find out which one is used in your
office here's a typical work plan
structure have a look also look in the
Files section on the top right to find
work plan examples take a moment now
to explore the different sections of a work
plan to build a work plan it helps to
understand the historical and cultural
context of your unit by asking yourself
a series of questions this is what we
call the 360 scan here's a typical
example of last year's work plan try to
apply the questions in the 360 scan
document to this fictional example you
may access the 360 scan document at
any time from the Files section of the top
right.
At this point you should understand the
context both historically
and culturally and be in a position to
craft this year's work plan imagine that
your director shares with you this
coming years priorities for your
Directorate protect aquatic ecosystems
sustain fisheries and manage the issuing
of licenses using the drop-down menu
choose the best option for each section
of this work plan
to help you wrap your mind around how to
fill the other sections of the work plan
let's continue with the same scenario
looking at your Draft you'll notice that
some items have been dropped into the
wrong location or maybe missing update
your draft accordingly.
All right your director tells you that they've
been to a steering committee meeting and
that they now have three new pieces of
information that should be reflected in
your work plan one there will be new
software implementation to speed up the
issuing of licenses two there's a new
policy that now requires licenses to be
issued in fifteen days not 30 days
starting on November 1st and three
there's been a decision to not replace a
retiring employee let's take what you've
learned into real life your organization
will have their own ways of doing things
take a timeout now from the course to
scan your intranet and see which
templates are used connect with your
colleagues your director your financial
officer to have a chat about work plans
so now that you know how to examine
prepare and adjust a work plan let's see
what you remember by taking this short quiz